hi today I will be showing one way of
using the map Tile
tool so we will start off
by creating some
graphs you can uh create anything really
but the idea is to create some uh tiles
that we can then generate more tiles
from so that the model can use the other
tiles as uh
inspiration so for this first generation
I want a quite low in it image strength
when it's just for example grass or road
or Beach you don't really need any uh in
it image but I think it sometimes helps
so I'm going to use
it it's important you get your starting
um tiles pretty good so that the model
will continue doing good stuff that's
why I highly recommend if you have
already have some uh tiles that you like
that you use them as inspiration so you
get better results
later so now we have created some grass
Let's uh create some sand or Beach and
then we can
um create a transition from grass uh to
uh to the
beach so I want to select the area in
between so we get a nice transition and
all of the
sound so let's say grass
to to start
off once we get something that we
like we can keep it by removing the in
pinning from it and
then we can remove what it is like fill
it back in and then we generate on top
of this so here we could say
um be sand
with some rocks
maybe and if it someone to do what you
want it to do we can add in some uh some
help some init image help and then uh
generate it might
be interesting to see U like beach to
water so what we could do might be
more cooler to do something
like uh this to this and let's make
water up here so you can get some nice
Corners something I want to note is that
you can use customize Uh custom size
which allows you to uh generate on 160
Time by 160 the issue with that is the
model is
better uh when you're doing it on a
smaller small smaller
size so in this case I'm
thinking I kind of want to uh allow the
model to see the
grass to uh help it understand like the
style that I'm
using so this might actually be a Cas so
I'm going to
allow to be a bit larger just so I can
let it the models see um see everything
let's try
that so let's uh take this whole uh
area let's use imp
painting and let's we want some nice
sand to water transition
here
can do all of it
let's let's have a pretty decent image
string and we do
um and also something that's good to
note is that model is actually um best
at editing what's in the middle of the
image so let's see what happens um
quite nice we can retry again see if it
comes up with something even
cooler
okay this isn't perfect but we kind of
see uh what looks like in the future
might be a good road so we're going to
do here is just remove what we don't
want and
then what we can
do is go back into the in painting here
then we're going to show the
model uh the the good road so the model
kind of understands oh okay this is what
it should look
like then that will help uh a lot then
we can
uh go in here and just help the model
out a little bit more by filling that
stuff
in and then we uh
generate all right so once this is done
in this case I'll
probably go in here maybe do something
like that and then let's say we are kind
of happy with this part can do something
like that then just let's just fix this
part so I don't really not loving the
transition so let's
do no in Dage IM in this
case and then we to go in
here and then we make the
transition all
right
nice and let's
say now we want the uh road to a
beach so in this case I'm just going
to custom size I think it will work
pretty
well going to go
in
[Music]
remove I probably I don't want
this I want to I'm going to want to in
paint paint transition in
between this
stuff going to
leave the road alone I want to show as
much as possible of the the road just to
give it an idea what it should look
like then here in
between I'm just going
to uh fill it
in might be good to uh take a darker
color just so there there a bigger
difference between the beach and the
road all
right then it's the H to
Road I'm going to use a init
image and
generate all right sometimes you don't
get EX
exactly what you were hoping
for let's just do that for
showcase let's go back like
this then we can uh help the model
out by removing some of
the in
painting we can
grab this area
here so we want to make it look like
this all right let's extend this area
bit let's
say let's say we just
want more grass now this is this is when
the um large size
model is the best it can see some grass
so it will easily yes duplicate
it all right
nice and then
uh we could um let's say add a tree
here so I'm just
gonna give the model uh some help then
go back to 64 by
64 and say tree and then increased init
image strength a
bit be large tree has to be extra
clear oh yeah we have to uh in paint the
tree as
well a bit higher in
it's okay
nice then we
can
remove this and let's just fix the top
of the top of the
tree something like
that nice let's say we want a
um a place to sit right here what you
can do is just similar it through the
tree we just in
paint and then we can
uh say uh a
bench and we will get a
bench b a mountain
here what we can do
is similarly to before
just Draw Something In Like This
that's the
mountain an init image let's say
200 in
painting make sure you cover the
transition
nice all we can do then is
just extend that to the
rest like that and make then we have to
make sure we
don't remove the in in pinning here so
the model can copy
this and then we can draw black on this
area
instead
nice and then let's
say we want a a
uh Cave opening
here we just go back in I
recommend not using custom size and make
it 64 64 and here we can
uh do the
opening and something
dark then we go
in let say um
cave
entrance let have a pretty low init
image strength cuz the color is so dark
so it should be
fine
nice all right
nice and we could then continue
this let's
say behind here
um maybe we
want a uh a dungeon or
something
nice we can then uh
remove this you can kind of imagine how
you can extend this mountain up a bit
and uh create a uh
dungeon
inside maybe we can do something like
this just want to in paint the corner
here dungeon
floor
nice so maybe
eest in this position is just do
something like
that and then what you could do if you
have a dungeon you know and you want a
uh
treasure I recomend just you can go
either you can make one in one of the
other models you just go in here
and make a treasure chest like this you
want to in paint where you want your
treasure uh and then let's say let's add
a color just to show the model like oh I
want my treasure to be in this
area
yes then
let's increase it a
bit all
right
all right nice so yeah you can kind of
imagine what you can do uh and how you
can create stuff and as long as you see
endit images you can control how the
walls form or how the lakes are shaped
and stuff like that uh at the moment the
map Tile tool is best used for 16 by 16
but you can do pretty much most of most
stuff with it you can add
houses uh different uh like
plants water stuff dungeon stuff and
yeah hope this is helpful and uh you can
create some awesome
stuff